2013 was the first time I used a “Task tracker”.

 Till then my team lead used Mantis(bug tracker).
Clients sent me bugs/feature requests via email. Sometimes they sent a document with screenshots attached, which was awesome.
This is why I learnt how to manage my work myself.

In my previous company, we started to use Trello boards.
1 board = 1 project.
Rules, styles, kanban — we never had them.


I just stored data that was useful for me.
Then we used Redmine.
We started with HostedReadmine(because it was free and online) — but they lacked a screenshot uploader.
So we installed a local version.

It worked only in the office — and was not cool.
In few months it was crashed and paralyzed our work for a few weeks(i had a lot of open tabs in my browser — so I created screenshots and replicated it from scratch)
And we started to use JIRA.

I love JIRA. I saw how elegant experienced project managers can use it, and it’s a corporate standard to use its software development.
It’s cool — when project manager existed in the
team and he had “straight hands”.
But without spending time on preparation work — using tools like JIRA is obsolete. It’s like shooting bird with M16.
You can use a stone instead.

I also used Confluence — she is great for inside company documentation. You can talk with client inside — discuss progress, finance, etc.
Initially JIRA did not have an
awesome git and google docs integration. It wasn’t even cheap.


And all features, like Hipchat integration(alternative to Skype/Slack) — demanded additional costs.
When our money went off — I started hunting for free alternatives.
I made an export from JIRA — but how to use it? What could I do if I did not use Atlassian products?
Nothing ;) It just consumed space on my HDD.

I chose Asana because I did not want to continue with Trello. Asana was simple, I understood its functioning.
But in some time I quit. I don’t know why…

Right now I use Slack and Github every day, and open Asana each time too in a separate tab… I don’t want to open a lot of other tabs. I am addicted to chrome tabs…
